1.What is the purpose of the group functions in SQL? Give some examples of group functions.
Group functions are necessary to get summary statistics of a dataset. COUNT, MAX, MIN, AVG, SUM, and DISTINCT are all group functions

2. Tell me the difference between an inner join, left join/right join, and union.
   - INNER JOIN: (the typical Join operation, which uses some comparison operator like = or ). These include equi-joins and natural joins.
Inner Joins use a comparison operator to match rows from two tables based on the values in common columns from each table.

   - OUTER JOIN: Outer joins can be a Left, a Right, or Full Outer Join.
Outer joins are specified with one of the following sets of keywords when they are specified in the FROM clause:

   1) LEFT JOIN or LEFT OUTER JOIN: The result set of a Left Outer Join includes all the rows from the left table specified in 
   the LEFT OUTER clause, not just the ones in which the joined columns match. 
   When a row in the left table has no matching rows in the right table, 
   the associated result set row contains null values for all select list columns coming from the right table.

   2) RIGHT JOIN or RIGHT OUTER JOIN: A Right Outer Join is the reverse of a Left Outer Join. 
   All rows from the right table are returned. Null values are returned for the left table any time a right table row
   has no matching row in the left table.

   3) FULL JOIN or FULL OUTER JOIN: A Full Outer Join returns all rows in both the Left and Right tables. 
   Any time a row has no match in the other table, the select list columns from the other table contain null values.
   When there is a match between the tables, the entire result set row contains data values from the base tables.


3. What does UNION do? What is the difference between UNION and UNION ALL?
Both UNION and UNION ALL concatenate the result of two different SQLs. They differ in the way they handle duplicates.
UNION performs a DISTINCT on the result set, eliminating any duplicate rows.
UNION ALL does not remove duplicates, and it therefore faster than UNION.
nion is much less performant as it must scan the result for duplicates 

4. What is the difference between SQL and MySQL or SQL Server?
SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It’s a standard language for accessing and manipulating databases. 

MySQL is a database management system, like SQL Server, Oracle, Informix, Postgres, etc. 
MySQL is a RDMS (Relational Database Management System).
When considering a utility for data management the two most popular choices are MySQL and SQL Server. 
Both are efficient at keeping your data organized and readily available through a user interface. 
Both technologies have the concept of schema (that is table storage) for data storage.

difference between SQL server and MySQL:
 - MYSQL available for free since it is open source, But SQL is not open source.
 - MYSQL offers only updateable views, SQL offers indexed views which are much more powerful, performing wise.
 - MYSQL doesn't support XML, Where as SQL supports it.
 - Auto tuning is not supported in MYQL, But can in SQL.
 - User defined functions are not supported in MYSQL, But supported in SQL.
 - Transaction support is very much limited in MYSQL, But extensively and fully offered in SQL.
 - Stored procedures and full joins not offered in MYSQL, But offered in SQL.
 - Cursor feature is not there in MYSQL but is there in SQL
 - Job scheduling and profiling not available in MYSQL, But available is SQL.
 
5. If a table contains duplicate rows, does a query result display the duplicate values by default? 
How can you eliminate duplicate rows from a query result?

When the result set from a SELECT statement contains duplicate rows, you may want to remove them and keep every row data to be unique
for a column or combination of columns. You can use the DISTINCT or DISTINCTROW identifier to eliminate duplicate records. 
DISTINCT and DISTINCTROW are synonyms and specify removal of duplicate rows from the result set.
- In a SELECT statement, include DISTINCT or DISTINCTROW keyword after the SELECT clause.
- Multiple columns can be specified after DISTINCT or DISTINCTROW keyword.
In this case, the result set contains distinct combination of data from these columns.

